---
title: Study Abroad - Pokémon VR
date: 2016-12-21 17:59:00 -0500
author: Brian Baron
selectedurl: Blog
---
For the last 4 months, I have been studying abroad in Montreal. I was able to attend MIGS (Montreal International Games Summit) 2016, as well as tour many local studios. All of this and my classes led to an intensive (yet rewarding) semester. Myself and 6 other programmers took classes on Linux/Unix, Game AI, and another course called "Advanced Seminar."

Advanced Seminar was a culmination of design patterns such as Functor and Factory, as well as in-depth discussion on working in the professional scene. As part of the class, we had to come up with a project (to be approved) that we had very little experience in. As such, myself and 4 others made a team to work on a VR implementation of the <em>Pokémon </em>battle system in Unreal 4.

The team consisted of myself, Duncan Carroll, Gabriel Pereyra, Lucas Spiker, and Justin Mulkin. We had never used Unreal before, and had mainly used Unity in the past. Our goal was to make a working battle system, allowing the player and opponent their own turns and choices for battle.

I was tasked with making a plugin for the editor, to be used as an offline tool. The plugin would be used to import data from files to an instance of our APokemon class, loading stats and other information.

By the end of the project, we had managed to pull together a working prototype: the player could walk around, interact with UI, and even throw a "Poké Ball" to switch your active Pokémon.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ZvAyHFUG1I&feature=youtu.be" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Here</a> is a short demo video we recorded before heading home for winter break!